The first step in creating an Angular application of course is to lay out the structure of this app
and especially plan which components you're probably going to need.
Now it's normal that whilst building the app, you decide to add another component which you didn't plan to
add at the beginning
or maybe you decide that you can merge two components you thought you would have to split
but generally, this is still a good approach and this should also show you how I approach this and
how you may decide what should go into its own component and what can be merged into another one.
So on this page, I try to lay out the general structure of our app and at the bottom, you can find kind
of a legend,
so let's start with the features of this app.
Well, we're going to have a shopping list and a recipe book section as I said, managing either our single ingredients
we need to buy or in the recipe book, our whole recipes. Which components will we need for this? Obviously,
a root component holding our overall application,
the app component, every Angular app has this. Then since we have two sections, it probably makes sense
to have some kind of header component where we can navigate between these two sections.
Of course you could also hardcode the headers simply into the app component but since it will contain its
own business logic, in the end it will trigger a routing action later and we will also add a dropdown
there in the end which allows us to store our recipes on the server and fetch them from there.
So since we will have that logic attached to the header, outsourcing it into its own component makes
sense so that we don't have to put all the logic into our root component which really mainly should only
be responsible for holding our overall app.
So that is the header,
now let's dive into the individual features,
let's start with the shopping list. Here I guess it makes sense to have the overall shopping-list component,
remember the purple box is only the feature so we need a component holding our shopping list and maybe
in this shopping-list component,
we also want to have a shopping list edit part which allows us to add new items, so an input field and
a button because that again has its own logic,
we will have to decide if we are editing an existing item or adding a new one,
we need to submit this, so it makes sense to create its own component for this.
So if we have an overall list component, mainly holding the data of the list and the edit component
being responsible for managing this data kind of, though the edit component will be nested inside the
list component.
I guess that's it for the shopping list, let's have a look at the recipe book. Here,
it certainly makes sense to have, again just like with the shopping list, a recipe-list component which
shows us a list of all our recipes. Here we might later also put each individual recipe into its own
item
though since it holds a little bit more information than just one line of HTML code and a recipe-detail
area would be great too.
So an area where once we select a recipe, we can see informations about that. Later in the course, we will
also add another component here because we will then somehow need a component which allows us to edit
existing recipes or add new ones
but since this is really advanced and we would not be able to fill it with much life right now, I will
omit it for now and focus on the displaying part.
So a list with items and then the details section which displays the details for the currently
selected item.
I guess this looks like a good plan,
each of these components should hold a significant amount of business logic and I guess with the component
sketch out here, we're really having each component focus on one main topic, displaying a list, displaying
information about a single item, displaying detail information about a selected item and so on.
So this is generally how I approach this,
of course feel free to split this up even more
or if you want, merge them together,
for example recipe-list in a single item but this will become more clear once we actually implement
these components.
Now one last thing we should think about, which models will be use in this app? And with model, I simply
mean which data.
So we certainly will need some representation for our ingredient.
We will use ingredients a lot in the recipe book too, each recipe there has a couple of ingredients,
so we should define how the ingredient looks like. That is something which your application probably
also needs,
be clear about the data you're going to use and put it into its own class, so that you have your own
type you can use later on and that you have a clear interface or definition of what your data looks
like so that you can easily have your components talk with each other,
something we'll dive in later in this course so that there is no issue regarding the data we're exchanging.
So besides the ingredients which probably is a very simple model, only controlling the name and amount
maybe, we also will need a model for the recipe which contains things like title, the description, the ingredients
and so on.
And I think that with this, we have a solid plan for now,
let's get started,
let's implement all these components, fill it with some dummy data for now and take the first step in
building our course project.